The Best Detox Diet for Weightloss and Overall Health Improvement 
(Added : Most Asked Questions And Their Answers)

Hiii! I’ve had many friends asking me to share this so thought I’ll put it up on FB for anyone who would like to try it.

This is by far the best detox diet for WEIGHT LOSS plus HEALTH AND IMMUNITY BUILDING plus HAIR/SKIN/NAIL that Iv done... I did it only for a month in 2014 and after this detox I’ve been constantly losing 1-2 KGS each month with regular food… In total I’ve now lost 33 KGS and this is my crazy story… P.S : Sorry about the length…😬

I had started pregnancy at 73 KGS and after hitting 105 KGS at the end of 9 months I could hardly recognize myself… It was like I had on Lady Gaga’s weird “Meat Dress” or something! (Just that this one was going to be preeetty hard to get out of.) A month into delivery I did lose some of the baby weight to reach 98 KGS… And that is where I was STUCK… for months… and months… and then, to what I call eternity!

So I dedicated myself on trying every single diet under the sun. And this was what happened: GM diet…been there…gym with high protein…done that! High carb, low sodium, no sugar, weights training, gymnastics on the threadmill aaand so on and so forth! The result : “I Could be the One” by Avicii & Nicky become a part of my life.

Well I would lose few kgs with each of the diet but once I’m back on regular food, I would put on faster than I had lost it! It happened every single time… I just couldn’t last on a diet for too long and eventually get back to regular food (non veg and carbs to be specific)

Then one day I came across these videos on youtube and it changed my life forever! (I would highly recommend you guys watch it too!)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sHZMQjNihqg

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O6oJA_xhTa8


At first I thought “Wow! These ladies have SOME will power man!! Hats off to them! Wish I could look something like that at their age!!”… But then I blissfully moved on with my life because the diet seemed sooo insane for someone like me to try that I didn’t even remotely consider being that adventurous! But in a few weeks I was back watching the same video again because I was desperate!!

So finally I did the diet in 2014 for A MONTH from Jan - Feb and this was what happened:

I lost 8 Kgs in a month, my skin was soft and pimple free, hair was shiny, nails turned into kill-weapon (THAT strong) AAAAAAND the most important part…….. I haven’t gained back any weight till date even after I got back to regular food!! In fact I’ve been losing 1-2 Kgs every month since then by just having salads few days a week and walking when possible…

It’s called the “RAW VEGAN DIET” and from what I see now its kinda becoming the next big thing… There are many raw vegan recipes in this website...its really worth a look… http://www.fullyraw.com/

This is what my daily plan looked like:

Breakfast – GREEN JUICE

Mid Day Snacks - NUTS, SEEDS, FRUITS

Lunch – SALAD

Mid Evening Snacks – FRUITS

Dinner – SALAD WITH COOKED PULSES

Water – PLENTY AND MORE

Apple Cider Vinegar – ONCE A DAY (2 teaspoon organic ACV diluted in a glass of water before any one meal)

Exercise –½ HOUR WALKING (anything over and above this will accelerate the weight loss like crazy!)

Ingredients:

GREEN JUICE : Half bunch Spinach, Half bunch Coriander Leaf (with part of the steam), Handful mint leaf, 1 full cucumber, 1 full tomato, Juice from 1 big lemon, ½ inch piece ginger, 2 cloves garlic

Blend everything in the blender instead of putting it into a juicer, because it will lose all its fiber in a juicer. You can add any green leaf of your choice to this if you’d like to. But make sure you have coriander leaf in every juice because its super amazing for a total detox!

Nuts : Regular mixed nuts – Walnut, Almond, Cashew, Peanut, Pista, etc.- salted ones are fine too…

Seeds : Mix of Chia seeds, Flax seeds, Sesame seeds and Pumpkin seeds… I read Hemp seeds are good as well…

Fruits : Absolutely any fruit your heart desires!

Salad (prepared for a week): 2-3 medium carrots, 2 medium beetroots, ½ small red cabbage, 2-3 celery sticks, red green and yellow capsicum(1 each), olives

Cooked Pulses : White or black chana, kidney beans, black eyed peas, etc. I chose only one pulse for a day and pressure cook ½ cup in turmeric powder and a pinch of salt.

ORGANIC IS SAFE!

The only problem with this diet is that its best to go ALL ORGANIC which could be a little expensive. Also consuming raw commercially grown veggies containing pesticides is not good in the long run at all!

Now, if you can’t go all organic, just wash your ingredients in a pot of water with 4 tablespoons of regular white vinegar and 1 tablespoon of baking soda. (Simply soak the ingredients in the solution for 2-3 minutes before cleaning it well and rinsing it under a running tap)

TIPS IF YOUR WORKING:

You could wash the leaves and other ingredients the night before and seal it in an air tight container to be stored in the fridge. Just juice it the next day morning.

Salad is made for a week so the portion size you want can be taken to the office in a container everyday. Same with nuts, seeds and fruits.

If you have time to read, below are some useful info I learned over the last year:

1. THE MORE YOU EAT THE MORE YOU LOSE WEIGHT… Since this is a high fiber diet, you don’t need to skip a meal to reduce weight. Infact the more you eat the more you will lose weight. So its perfect for anyone who wants to lose weight but eat more!!

2. THIS DIET IS NOT A TEST OF WILL POWER… Let me explain… All our bodies are “Acidic” right now after consuming processed food and meat. So when we are hungry the brain automatically reaches out for food that will keep it acidic. This is a natural process.
One week into the raw vegan diet, the body changes to “Alkaline” state because of the detox. After which when we are hungry, the brain starts reaching out for green food and fruits. This is again a natural process, so don’t be surprised! You could google “Acidic” & “Alkaline” body for more info…

3. SURVIVING THE FIRST WEEK - What I did to survive the first week of the diet was buy my favorite chips and whenever my brain reached out for food that my acidic body loved I would have 1-2 pieces at a time. I would encourage you to do this with any of your fav food, because it is not always easy to fight the brain. If you feel bold and want to go all vegan at once, do this if at some point you might want to give up and stop the diet completely. 
You could experience body pain and tiredness in the first few days. This is very common because the flow of blood will increase to a great extent in the body when detox begins.

4. SUGAR LEVEL, CHOLESTROL AND BP - Your doctor will look puzzled if you have previously had any of the above because suddenly its all back to normal. Don’t be surprised if they ask “You’ve lost so much weight! And why the hell is your sugar and cholesterol perfect?!?!”…. All you need to do in this tricky situation is give the doctor a side smile and calmly leave the room before he/she turns violent! No doctor likes the thought of losing their patient… especially to vegetables!

5. FOR ANY AGE GROUP - The diet is safe for guys and girls whether your 8 years or 80 years…


I guess I’ve covered all the points… If you have any doubts please check out the most asked questions below and I hope it is helpful too...

So this is Cheeeeeers to a younger, sexier and healthier you!!!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The response to this post has been unbelievable... A BIG THANKS to everyone whose liked and shared it. It will help many people lose weight and gain health… AND ABOVE ALL, what you’re ACTUALLY doing right now is building a whole new generation of super humans who would be salsa dancing and bungee jumping at the age of 75+!!

Questions on the Raw Vegan Diet:

PS: There are few questions that were asked my many and I would like to address it for everyone... I’m just another regular person like anyone of you… I’v tried to answer the questions in the best way possible based on my experience over the last year, but I would encourage everyone to google and research further when your doing the diet…

PS: Again, please don’t mind the length of this post…

1. CAN I HAVE DAIRY PRODUCTS LIKE MILK, CURD, ETC.? HOW DO I GET MY DAILY CALCIUM NEEDS? WHAT ABOUT ALL OTHER VITAMINS OUR BODY NEEDS?

Since vegan is a complete plant based diet it’s best to avoid dairy altogether during the entire detox period. Once your done with the detox you can go back to consuming dairy as usual.

But till then all your calcium needs will easily be met with the green leaves/veggies and what I call “The Calcium Super Food” – CHIA SEED. Chia is an EXCELLENT source of calcium and magnesium… If you have kids who are lactose intolerant this seed is the best source of calcium for them too.

Infact Vegan diet gives a balanced supply of all the vitamins and mineral our body needs.

VERY IMPORTANT POINT I MISSED OUT EARLIER – Please try and get atleast 10-15 minutes of SUNLIGHT everyday (preferably between 9-12 noon) for your vitamin D requirement which will help your body properly absorb calcium and all the nutrition from the food.

2. CAN I DO THIS DIET WHILE BREASTFEEDING? WILL MY MILK FLOW REDUCE?

I found this diet after I had stopped breastfeeding so I don’t have direct experience. But I’m sure that the nutrition you will pass to the baby through the milk while on the diet will be extremely beneficial.

Do get ORGANIC SEEDS , NUTS AND PULSES for your diet… Also do have organic dates everyday….the leaves/fruits/veggies can be washed in the vinegar and baking soda solution even if they are not organic…

For all breast feeding moms I would suggest you take the diet one step at a time… You can start off the first week with the green juice in the morning and by snacking on seeds, nuts and fruits during the day with regular food for lunch and dinner. After a week you can then introduce salad and pulses (1 cup of pulse since your nursing) for dinner and then gradually move to the diet at a comfortable phase. Keep a check on the milk flow during the whole time… If you feel that you are not comfortable with raw vegan diet while breastfeeding then wait it out till you stop.

3. CAN I HAVE TEA OR COFFEE WHILE ON DIET?

It’s best not to have tea or coffee during the detox period. I would highly recommend Green Tea with Honey and Lemon once or twice a day because it’s very effective in weight loss.

4. I’M ON SUGAR/BP/CHOLESTROL/THYROID/PCOD MEDICATION. CAN I DO THE DIET?

Yes, this detox diet will help you reduce each of the above ailments and get you back to good health.

I would suggest taking it step by step because there is medication involved… You can start off the first week with the green juice in the morning and by snacking on seeds, nuts and fruits during the day along with apple cider vinegar and regular food for lunch and dinner. After a week you can then introduce salad and pulses for dinner and then move to the diet completely at a comfortable phase.

However, please please do check with the doctor after a week or two into the diet if the medicine/dosage needs to be reduced based on the test results. For example, its not safe to still continue taking a high dose sugar medication once the sugar level starts dropping down to normal. Nor is glucophage required by a PCOD girl once her periods are back to normal.

5. WILL I EXPERIENCE TIREDNESS AND FATIGUE AFTER STARTING THE DIET? THERE ARE NO CARBS LIKE RICE AND BREAD INCLUDED.

Few could experience body pain in the first 1-2 days of the diet because the detox will start flushing toxins out of the blood and help improve blood circulation. If you still feel tired increase the quantity of nuts and also consume dates everyday. But trust me, after that you’ll have no idea what to do with the sudden increase in energy level you’ll be experiencing… so you’d better be ready to handle yourself!

6. I LOVE TO GYM. CAN I DO THIS DIET WHILE I STILL CONTINUE TO GYM? / YOU MENTIONED ½ HOUR WALK EVERYDAY… CAN I DO ANY OTHER FORM OF EXERCISE?

Yes you can. I haven’t researched a lot about VEGAN BODY BUILDERS.. but yes they do exist and yes these girls/guys do look hot! I would suggest researching into it. My only input would be to increase the quantity of cooked pulses because they are a great source of protein. This is a site worth looking at www.veganbodybuilding.com.

I have mentioned ½ hour walk because walking is one of the best exercise next to yoga and some minimal form of exercise is good during detox … But u can do any other forms of exercise too and it will help greatly.

7. HOW LONG DO I NEED TO DETOX FOR? WHAT DO I DO AFTER THE DETOX TO MAINTAIN MYSELF? HOW DID YOU MANAGE TO LOSE 1-2 KGS EACH MONTH AFTER GETTING BACK TO REGULAR FOOD?

I would suggest a minimum of one month for the diet to show its effects. But its completely upto you on how long you would like to continue it… you could continue it for 2-3 months if there is any occasion coming up, you could do it till u reach your ideal weight or even decide to do it for life.

If you choose to get back to regular food, what I had done was mix the diet with my regular food. I would have the morning green juice or salad atleast 3-4 times a week along with regular food and went for walks whenever possible….

One of the biggest thing that helps you to lose weight in a steady phase is that the food intake will start reducing… most of the time the problem we face is because of the portion size we consume in one go.. this diet is about eating a healthy portion through the day…

8. CAN I ADD SALT TO THE JUICE OR SALAD?

Its best to keep salt at the minimum during the detox period… You could add a pinch of salt in the salad but I wouldn’t recommend salt in the morning juice. What I did was have salted nuts to balance my salt needs for the day.

However, if you have low BP please do go ahead and add salt as needed in the juice and salads too.

9. DO I NEED TO FOLLOW THE SAME DIET PLAN EVERYDAY?

No, the plan iv posted is just a guideline to get the diet started. You can find many more recipes online if you google “RAW VEGAN RECEPIES” for salads and juices. The website http://www.fullyraw.com/ is really worth a look not only for recopies but also to get a complete picture about the diet.

10. HOW MUCH NUTS, SEEDS AND FRUITS CAN I CONSUME IN A DAY? HOW SHOULD I EAT THE SEEDS? CAN I EAT SEEDS APART FROM THE ONES MENTIONED IN THE PLAN?

You can have two handful of mixed nuts and about 2 table spoons of mixed seeds a day. Fruits are practically unlimited unless you have a high sugar problem.

There is a lot of information on the net about how healthy seeds are for us. So go ahead and add any seed you would like to into the seeds mix. I ate the mixed seeds as it is but I’ve read that you could also add it into juices as well.

Its best to eat the seeds raw without any roasting or heating because the nutrition level will come down to a great extent once the seeds are cooked.

11. I’M A CHOCOLATE ADDICT. HOW DO I DO THIS WITHOUT CHOCOLATE EVERYDAY?

There is extremely good news for every chocoholics out there! Raw cocoa powder is an extremely healthy ingredient for our body. Its only when its processed with sugar to make the commercial chocolates that it becomes unhealthy.

There are many HEAVENLY RAW VEGAN CHOCOLATE TRUFFLE recipes on the net with ingredients like cocoa powder, dates, nuts, rasins, coconut powder, a dash of orange juice, cinnamon powder, etc. Its insane! And you can eat it with zero guilt!!

I guess I was able to cover most of the points…. So once again, this is Cheeeeeers to a younger, sexier and healthier you!!!